Initialize new private data asset transfer CC (#205)
hyperledger/fabric-samples: asset-transfer-private-data/chaincode-go/README.md

First, we will use the Org1 CA to create the owner identity. Set the Fabric CA client home the Org1 CA admin (this identity was generated by the script):
```
export FABRIC_CA_CLIENT_HOME=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/
```

You can register a new owner client identity using the `fabric-ca-client` tool:
```
fabric-ca-client register --caname ca-org1 --id.name owner --id.secret ownerpw --id.type client --tls.certfiles ${PWD}/organizations/fabric-ca/org1/tls-cert.pem
```

We can now enroll using the enroll name and secret to generate the identity crypto material.
```
fabric-ca-client enroll -u https://owner:ownerpw@localhost:7054 --caname ca-org1 -M ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp --tls.certfiles ${PWD}/organizations/fabric-ca/org1/tls-cert.pem
```

Run the command below to copy the Node OU configuration file into the owner identity MSP folder.
```

> cp ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/msp/config.yaml ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp/config.yaml

Author: Even client identities need the `config.yaml` file to submit transactions. The test networks scripts were updated recently to correct for this. The file already exists within the test network, but is not created by Fabric-ca-client.

```

We can now enroll using the enroll name and secret to generate the identity crypto material.
```
fabric-ca-client enroll -u https://buyer:buyerpw@localhost:8054 --caname ca-org2 -M ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/buyer@org2.example.com/msp --tls.certfiles ${PWD}/organizations/fabric-ca/org2/tls-cert.pem
```

Run the command below to copy the Node OU configuration file into the buyer identity MSP folder.
```
cp ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/msp/config.yaml ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/buyer@org2.example.com/msp/config.yaml
```

## Create an asset

We can now use the smart contract to create an asset that is owned by the owner identity from Org1. Use the following environment variables to operate the `peer` CLI as the owner identity from Org1.

```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

> Run the following command to define the asset properties:3

Author: done.

```

> export asset_PROPERTIES=$(echo -n "{\"object_type\":\"asset\",\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"color\":\"green\",\"size\":20,\"appraisedValue\":100}" | base64 | tr -d \\n)

Author: Done

```

When successful, the command will return the following result:
```
"{\"object_type\":\"asset\",\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"color\":\"green\",\"size\":20,\"owner\":\"eDUwOTo6Q049b3duZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMS5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzEuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1EdXJoYW0sU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUw==\"}"
```

The `"owner"` of the asset is the identity that invoked the chaincode to create the asset, as identified by the common name and issuer of the identities certificate, which is then base64 encoded. You can see that information by base64 decoding the owner string:
```
echo eDUwOTo6Q049b3duZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMS5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzEuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1EdXJoYW0sU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUw | base64 --decode
```

The result will show the common name and issuer of the owner certificate:
```
x509::CN=owner,OU=client,O=Hyperledger,ST=North Carolina,C=US::CN=ca.org1.example.com,O=org1.example.com,L=Durham,ST=North Carolina,C=Umacbook-air:test-network
```

> The owner can also read the marble details that are stored in the `Org1MSPDetailsCollection` stored on the Org1 peer:

Author: done.

```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReadAssetPrivateDetails","Args":["Org1MSPDetailsCollection","asset1"]}'
```
The query will return the price of the asset:
```
"{\"ID\":\"asset1\",\"appraisedValue\":100}"
```

### Buyer from Org2 agrees to buy the asset

The buyer that belongs to Org2 is interested in buying the asset. Set the following environment variables to operate as the buyer of the asset:

```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org2MSP"
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/buyer@org2.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:9051
```

> Now that we are operating as a member of Org2, we should not that the asset details are not currently stored in Org2 private data collection:

Author: we can demonstrate that the asset appraisal is not stored on the Org2 peer

```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReadAssetPrivateDetails","Args":["Org2MSPDetailsCollection","asset1"]}'
```
The buyer only finds that asset1 does exist in his collection:
```

> Error: endorsement failure during invoke. response: status:500 message:"asset1 does not exist"

Author: Done.

```

Nor is a member of Org2 able to read the Org1 private data collection:
```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReadAssetPrivateDetails","Args":["Org1MSPDetailsCollection","asset1"]}'
```
By setting `"memberOnlyRead": true` in the collection configuration file, only a member of Org1 can read the collection. A member from Org2 only gets the following response.
```
Error: endorsement failure during query. response: status:500 message:"failed to read from asset details GET_STATE failed: transaction ID: f695f08e71667d7124d7779d2312b21b67320b37f528d453bbd117ffd87ec86b: tx creator does not have read access permission on privatedata in chaincodeName:private_transfer collectionName: Org1MSPDetailsCollection"
```

> To purchase the asset, the buyer needs to agree to the price set by the owner. The buyer can then store that price in the `Org2MSPDetailsCollection` private details collection. Run the following command to agree to the appraised value of 100:

Author: I want to use the price agreement to use the demonstrate the use the getPrivateDataHash function. We have told people how to keep data private, but this allows users to share private data as well. This is a basic, and bit naive use of that API. But I think it works well as an intro to the more advanced sample.

To purchase the asset, the buyer needs to pass their identity out of band. The buyer can use the return ID function for that purpose:
```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReturnID","Args":[]}'
```

The query returns the following string:
```
eDUwOTo6Q049YnV5ZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMi5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1IdXJzbGV5LFNUPUhhbXBzaGlyZSxDPVVL
```

## Transfer the asset to Org2

Now that buyer has agreed to buy the asset for appraised value, Org1 can transfer the asset to Org2. Set the following environment variables to operate as Org1:
```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

> To transfer the asset, the owner needs to pass the MPS ID and identity of the new owner to the transfer function using transient data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To transfer the asset, the owner needs to pass the MSP ID and identity of the new owner to the transfer function using transient data.
```

Author: done.

```
export asset_Owner=$(echo -n "{\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"buyer_id\":\"eDUwOTo6Q049YnV5ZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMi5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1IdXJzbGV5LFNUPUhhbXBzaGlyZSxDPVVL\",\"buyer_msp\":\"Org2MSP\"}" | base64 | tr -d \\n)
```

> Operate from the Org1 terminal. The owner of the asset needs to initiate the transfer. Note that the command below uses the `--peerAddresses` flag to target the peers of both Org1 and Org2. Both organizations need to endorse the transfer.

Author: actually, both collections are not updated. As a result, currently only the owners endorsement is needed to transfer the asset.

```

> peer chaincode invoke -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"TransferAsset","Args":[]}' --transient "{\"asset_owner\":\"$asset_Owner\"}" --peerAddresses localhost:7051 --tlsRootCertFiles ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt --peerAddresses localhost:9051 --tlsRootCertFiles ${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt

Author: You ran an old version with this comment. I was able to run end to end.

```
You can query `asset1` to see the results of the transfer.
```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReadAsset","Args":["asset1"]}'
```

The results will show that the buyer identity now owns the asset:

```
{"object_type":"asset","asset_id":"asset1","color":"green","size":20,"owner":"eDUwOTo6Q049YnV5ZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMi5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzIuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1IdXJzbGV5LFNUPUhhbXBzaGlyZSxDPVVL"}
```

> You can also confrirm that transfer removed the private details from the Org1 collection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also confirm that transfer removed the private details from the Org1 collection:
```

```
peer chaincode query -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"ReadAssetPrivateDetails","Args":["Org1MSPDetailsCollection","asset1"]}'
```

> You query will return the following result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your query will return the following result:
```

Author: done.

These two collections are used to transfer the asset created by the tutorial between Org1 and Org2. The asset transfer in this tutorial uses the following flow:

- A member of Org1 uses the `CreateAsset` function to create a new asset. The `CreateAsset` function uses the `GetID()` API to read the certificate information of the client identity that submitted the request and makes the identity the owner of the asset. The main details of the asset, including the owner, are stored in the `assetCollection` collection. The appraised value of the asset is stored in the organization specific collection of the asset owner. Because the asset is initially created by a member of Org1, the appraisal value is stored in the `Org1MSPDetailsCollection` collection.

> - A member of Org2 uses the `AgreetoTransfer` function to agree to purchase the asset for a specified price. This agreed to value is stored in the `Org2MSPDetailsCollection` collection, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreetoTransfer` also uses the `GetID()` API to read the identity that is agreeing to the transfer, and stores the identity as the value of a transfer agreement key stored in the `assetCollection`.

Reviewer 2: The above details really helped me, to put the context of the Asset, Transfer and the usecase. We should make this front & center para, as a reader goes through tutorial. 
It is close to real world usecases like real-estate sale, auction of a precious item or a deed recorded by a State.

one thing that is not chiming for me is that AppraisedValue is often public data. I would wish the private-data & secured-agreement tutorial to have same usecase & Asset attributes, so reader will stay with the tutorial ( minimize the variability / detail overload between tutorials). If we go with this thought, then private-data should also use `Price` like  secured-agreement.

> - A member of Org2 uses the `AgreetoTransfer` function to agree to purchase the asset for a specified price. This agreed to value is stored in the `Org2MSPDetailsCollection` collection, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreetoTransfer` also uses the `GetID()` API to read the identity that is agreeing to the transfer, and stores the identity as the value of a transfer agreement key stored in the `assetCollection`.

Reviewer: Of the four samples, ONLY secured-agreement has the concept of a transaction price agreement.
We could switch 'appraised value' to some other private attribute that lives beyond a transfer, but I don't think we want to include transaction price in this sample. That is intentionally something that distinguishes this scenario from the secured-agreement scenario.

> - A member of Org2 uses the `AgreetoTransfer` function to agree to purchase the asset for a specified price. This agreed to value is stored in the `Org2MSPDetailsCollection` collection, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreetoTransfer` also uses the `GetID()` API to read the identity that is agreeing to the transfer, and stores the identity as the value of a transfer agreement key stored in the `assetCollection`.

Author: Done.

> - A member of Org2 uses the `AgreeToTransfer` function to agree to trade the asset for a specified value. The value is stored in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection` collection, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreeToTransfer` function also uses the `GetID()` API to read the identity that is agreeing to the transfer, and stores the identity as the value of a transfer agreement key stored in the `assetCollection`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create an Agreement to trade: A member of Org2 uses the `AgreeToTransfer` function to agree to trade the asset for an appraised_value. The value is stored in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection` collection, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreeToTransfer` function also uses the `GetClientIdentity().GetID()` API to read the client identity that is agreeing to the Transfer. The **TransferAgreement** is stored in the `assetCollection` as a key with the name "transferAgreement{assetID}".
```

Author: done.

```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

Run the following command to define the asset properties:
```
export ASSET_PROPERTIES=$(echo -n "{\"type\":\"asset\",\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"color\":\"green\",\"size\":20,\"appraised_value\":100}" | base64 | tr -d \\n)
```

We can the invoke the smart contract to create the new asset:
```
peer chaincode invoke -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile ${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem -C mychannel -n private_transfer -c '{"function":"CreateAsset","Args":[]}' --transient "{\"asset_properties\":\"$ASSET_PROPERTIES\"}"
```

> The command above uses the transient data flag, `--transient`, to provide the marble details to the transaction. Transient data is is only stored in a transient data store in the peers targeted by the transaction. Transient data is not part of the transaction read write set, and as result is not stored on the channel ledger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above uses the transient data flag, `--transient`, to provide asset details to the chaincode. Transient data is not part of the transaction read write set, and as result is not stored on the channel ledger.
```

Reviewer: Nik, there are two different 'transient' concepts that you were mixing up...
Transient field is used to pass private data input to chaincode on the endorsing peers, it is never stored.
Transient store is used to store private proposed writes locally so that they are available at commit time. All endorsers store their private writes, and also disseminate to other peers who also store the private writes until commit time.
We focus on the former here.

Author: Misread the documentation. My mistake.

Fixed.

```

When successful, the command will return the following result:
```
"{\"type\":\"asset\",\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"color\":\"green\",\"size\":20,\"owner\":\"eDUwOTo6Q049b3duZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMS5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzEuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1EdXJoYW0sU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUw==\"}"
```

The `"owner"` of the asset is the identity that invoked the chaincode to create the asset. The `GetID()` API reads the common name and issuer of the identity certificate. You can see that information by base64 decoding the owner string:
```
echo eDUwOTo6Q049b3duZXIsT1U9Y2xpZW50LE89SHlwZXJsZWRnZXIsU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUzo6Q049Y2Eub3JnMS5leGFtcGxlLmNvbSxPPW9yZzEuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20sTD1EdXJoYW0sU1Q9Tm9ydGggQ2Fyb2xpbmEsQz1VUw | base64 --decode
```

The result will show the common name and issuer of the owner certificate:
```
x509::CN=owner,OU=client,O=Hyperledger,ST=North Carolina,C=US::CN=ca.org1.example.com,O=org1.example.com,L=Durham,ST=North Carolina,C=Umacbook-air:test-network
```

> A member of Org1 can also read the private marble appraisal value that is stored in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection` collection on the Org1 peer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A member of Org1 can also read the private asset appraisal value that is stored in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection` collection on the Org1 peer:
```

Author: done.

```
The invoke will return the following value:
```
{"asset_id":"asset1","appraised_value":100}
```

## Transfer the asset to Org2

Now that buyer has agreed to buy the asset for appraised value, the owner from Org1 can transfer the asset to Org2. Set the following environment variables to operate as Org1:
```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/owner@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

To transfer the asset, the owner needs to pass the MSP ID of new asset owner. The transfer function will read the client ID of the new owner from the transfer agreement.
```
export ASSET_OWNER=$(echo -n "{\"asset_id\":\"asset1\",\"buyer_msp\":\"Org2MSP\"}" | base64 | tr -d \\n)
```

> The owner of the asset needs to initiate the transfer. Note that the command below uses the `--peerAddresses` flag to target the peers of both Org1 and Org2. Both organizations need to endorse the transfer.

Author: In the current flow, only the owners collection is updated. As a result, the transfer only needs to be endorsed by the owner, and does not need to be endorsed by the buyer.

These three collections are used to transfer the asset between Org1 and Org2. In the tutorial, you will use the private data smart contract to complete the following transfer scenario:

- A member of Org1 uses the `CreateAsset` function to create a new asset. The `CreateAsset` function reads the certificate information of the client identity that submitted the transaction using the `GetClientIdentity.GetID()` API and creates a new asset with the client identity as the asset owner. The main details of the asset, including the owner, are stored in the `assetCollection` collection. The appraised value of the asset is stored in the organization specific collection of the asset owner. Because the asset is initially created by a member of Org1, the appraisal value is stored in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection`.

> - A member of Org2 creates an agreement to trade using the `AgreeToTransfer` function. The potential buyer uses this function to agree to an asset appraisal value. The value is stored in `Org1MSPPrivateCollection`, and can only read by a member of Org2. The `AgreeToTransfer` function also uses the `GetClientIdentity().GetID()` API to read the client identity that is agreeing to the Transfer. The **TransferAgreement** is stored in the `assetCollection` as a key with the name "transferAgreement{assetID}"

Author: done.

> - After the member of Org2 has to the transfer, the asset owner can transfer the asset to the buyer using the `TransferAsset` function. The smart contract completes a couple of checks before the asset is transferred:

Author: has agreed to the transfer..

    - The transfer request is submitted by the owner of the asset.

>     - The smart contract uses the `GetPrivateDataHash()` function to check that the hash of the asset appraisal value in `Org1MSPPrivateCollection` matches the hash of the appraisal value in the `Org1MSPPrivateCollection`. If the hashes are the same, it confirms that the owner and the interested buyer have agreed to the same asset value.

Author: Fixed.
